hi there I'm chef Eric Crowley owner of
the culinary classroom in West Los
Angeles and today I'm going to show you
how to julienne a shallot the shallot
itself is like a very small onion I've
cut off the top of the shallot here and
barely trimmed off the root and then
peeled off the papery skin often times
of the shallot when you do this you'll
have a little flat section that'll act
like like a little stabilizer so when
you've set the shallot down on your
cutting board it won't roll around if
you don't have that and you can go ahead
and cut the shallot in half I have the
root of the onion of the shallot
pointing away from me and in order to
make a julienne I'm gonna actually cut
the root away and you can see between
the root and the top of the shallot or
where the top used to be I've got all
these lines this is actually cell walls
of the shallot or like a grain if you
will I'm gonna cut with those in order
to make my julienne first I'm going to
take the root off middle ring and pinkie
finger around my knife thumb and
forefinger around the blade trim the
root off like that and I can use that
for something else and now at this point
I'm just going to take my knife and
start to make some parallel slices I'm
gonna lift the handle off of the cutting
board and bring the knife completely off
the cutting board and I'm gonna push
forward and down to cut taking my
opposite hand and lightly curling my
fingers underneath to hold on to the
shallot and just make some nice thin
slices the thinner I make my slices the
finer the julienne will become as I
start to get really narrow here I can
lay the shallot down on its cut side and
then proceed to make some more cuts
pick up a couple of pieces that did not
get quite cut into a julienne and with
the route missing you could see how the
layers start to fall apart like this
and that is how you julienne a shallot
thanks again for watching be sure to
subscribe so you can get some additional
information if there's a recipe that you
would like to see me make feel free to
send an email to requests at Mahalo com
thanks again and I'll see you soon